{
  "approach": "query",
  "change": "Refactor the list_notes function in app/db.py to perform filtering, searching, and pagination directly within the SQLite database using SQL WHERE clauses and LIMIT/OFFSET, instead of fetching all rows and filtering in Python. Specifically: 1. Construct a dynamic SQL query with placeholders for search_text and tags_filter. 2. Use LIKE for substring search on title and body. 3. Use JSON1 extension functions (json_each) or string matching for tag filtering if JSON1 is available, otherwise optimize the Python-side tag check by pre-parsing tags only for rows that match the search text, or better yet, store tags in a normalized table if schema changes were allowed (but since we must preserve API semantics and likely schema, we will use SQL string matching for tags if possible, or optimize the Python loop). Given the constraint to preserve persistence, we will stick to the existing schema but move logic to SQL. For tags, since they are stored as a JSON array string, we can use `json_each` if SQLite supports it (standard in modern Python sqlite3), or fall back to optimized Python filtering after a SQL search filter. 4. Return the count of total matches separately. This eliminates the O(N) Python loop for filtering and the O(N) JSON parsing for all rows, reducing it to O(K) where K is the number of matching rows.",
  "hypothesis": "The current implementation fetches all notes from the database and filters them in Python, which is O(N) for every list request. By moving the filtering logic to SQL, we reduce the amount of data transferred from the database and the CPU time spent on Python-side iteration and JSON parsing. This should significantly reduce the cumulative time spent in list_notes, especially as the number of notes grows.",
  "risks": [
    "SQLite's JSON1 extension might not be available in the environment, requiring a fallback to string matching or Python-side filtering for tags.",
    "Complex SQL query construction might introduce bugs if not handled carefully with parameterized queries.",
    "If the dataset is small, the overhead of SQL query planning might outweigh the benefits, but the profile shows significant time in Python loops, suggesting SQL is better."
  ],
  "schema_version": 1
}