{
  "approach": "query",
  "change": "Refactor list_notes in app/db.py to perform filtering and counting directly in SQLite using SQL expressions instead of loading all rows into Python memory. Replace the current SELECT * ... ORDER BY id ASC followed by Python-side iteration with a single query that uses CASE statements for substring matching and JSON functions for tag containment. Specifically: 1) Use a parameterized query that constructs WHERE clauses dynamically based on search_text and tags_filter. 2) For search_text, use INSTR(title, ?) > 0 OR INSTR(body, ?) > 0. 3) For tags_filter, use json_each to expand the stored JSON array and check for existence of each required tag. 4) Use a COUNT(*) subquery or separate query to get the total count of matching notes before applying LIMIT/OFFSET. 5) Return only the paginated subset using LIMIT/OFFSET. This eliminates the need to deserialize all tags for all notes in Python and reduces memory allocation and CPU usage significantly.",
  "hypothesis": "The current implementation loads all notes from the database into Python memory, deserializes all tags for every note, and performs filtering in Python. This is inefficient because it processes data that may not be needed (due to pagination) and performs string operations in Python rather than letting SQLite handle them. By moving the filtering logic to SQL, we reduce the amount of data transferred from the database, reduce Python object creation overhead, and leverage SQLite's optimized string and JSON functions. This should significantly reduce the cumulative time spent in list_notes, _to_note, and json.loads, which are the top hotspots in the profile.",
  "risks": [
    "Complex SQL construction with dynamic WHERE clauses may introduce syntax errors if not carefully parameterized.",
    "SQLite's json_each function may have performance characteristics that differ from expectations on small datasets, though it should still be faster than Python-side processing for large datasets.",
    "Ensuring case-sensitive substring matching with INSTR is correct and matches the existing Python behavior (which uses 'in' operator).",
    "Handling empty tags_filter correctly to avoid invalid SQL syntax.",
    "Maintaining the exact same sorting order (ASC by id) and pagination semantics."
  ],
  "schema_version": 1
}